





Coding Bootcamp or Self-Learning? Which is Best for You?
Jan 20, 2023 | Tips for Prospective Students


If you’re interested in embarking on a career in tech, it is likely that you have taken a look into two learning paths: self-learning vs. coding bootcamps. But what are the differences?
Self-Learning
Many online institutions offer self-learning courses. This is becoming increasingly popular as students are becoming more aware of their individual learning styles, and value flexibility and self-paced programs.
Advantages of Self-Learning

You can form your instruction at times that best suit your needs and lifestyle
You can purse your new path from the comfort of your home if you choose!
There are many self-learning courses that offer flexible payment options

Disadvantages of Self-Learning

Working alone can sometimes lead to a lack of motivation, requiring a great deal of strictness to remain on track
There are no peers or instructors physically present to study with or ask questions

Traditional Coding Bootcamp
Coding bootcamps have a reputation for being the accelerated path to launching a career in tech. This tends to work best for students that thrive off of structured learning, with a support team to assist throughout the process.
Advantages of Coding Bootcamps

Bootcamps are typically instructor-led meaning you have access to industry experts throughout your program to help you fully understand the material
You and your peers will more than likely need to complete a project together before the end of your course. This will aid in forming connections with the next group of individuals to enter the tech industry (which is great for networking!)
To employers, completing a program through a coding bootcamp looks phenomenal! This demonstrates your ability to commit to something complex and learn quickly.

Disadvantages of Coding Bootcamps

Every piece of information covered in a coding bootcamp’s curriculum may not be imperative to your new role. A top goal of a bootcamp is to lay a good foundation for many possible careers. This means that if the curriculum covers pieces you may already know, or that do not exactly pertain to you, you will still need to be actively involved in the lessons.
If you are someone who prefers to spend a lot of time absorbing information, you may not be given the opportunity to do so, given that a bootcamp has a structured curriculum with time frames for each topic.

Both options have their advantages and disadvantages, but selecting which path is the correct choice for you should be based on your learning style and life circumstances.
Codeup
Codeup is the first, and currently the only accredited* coding bootcamp in Texas. Our program offerings range from 15 to 20 weeks and include: Full-Stack Web Development, Data Science and Cloud Administration. These programs are open to individuals of all backgrounds and experience levels.
When you decide to transition careers with Codeup, our commitment to you goes beyond class-time. You will have direct access to a support system including:

Admissions and financial aid managers
A student experience team
Instructors who are subject matter experts
A placement team looking to help you secure a job in-field once you graduate

We also offer a tuition refund guarantee! We will refund your paid tuition back to you if you do not find a job in-field within six months of completing a Codeup program.
If this sounds like a good fit for you, use any of the following options to launch your career in tech!

Attend a 100% free instructor-led workshop to try your hand at coding!
Request more information on one or all of our programs
Get started now by filling out a quick form
Schedule time with an admissions manager to talk through the process

*Codeup is accredited for postsecondary, non-degree granting, career and technology programs by the Middle States Commission on Secondary Schools of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, 3624 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, (267) 284-5000








Our ProgramsCloud Administration
Full Stack Web Development
Data Science





Latest Blog Articles
Black Excellence in Tech: Panelist Spotlight – Wilmarie De La Cruz Mejia
Black excellence in tech: Panelist Spotlight – Stephanie Jones
Black excellence in tech: Panelist Spotlight – James Cooper
Black excellence in tech: Panelist Spotlight – Jeanice Freeman
Coding Bootcamp or Self-Learning? Which is Best for You?

















 


